
Contents
04 05
The BMW M
INSPIRING POWER, 
INCREDIBLY EXECUTED.
Technology
POWER MEETS 
EFFICIENCY.
Equipment
M POWER YOUR 
PERSONALIZATION. 
 Interior
 
For the M, every suit is a strong one. 
 Exterior
 
Design in the name of performance.
 Performance
 
 
You’re in for an amazing drive. 
 Comfort
 
A personalized experience.
  
Business jet
 
 
M insights from Maximilian Ahme, 
BMW M project engineer.
 

bmwusa.com/M
  
M TwinPower Turbo V- engine
 
 
M Power performance with optimum 
efﬁ ciency.
  
M DCT with Drivelogic and 
Active M Differential
 
 
Perfection at the limit.
 Chassis and brakes
 
 
From the racetrack to the road.
  
 years of BMW M
  
BMW ConnectedDrive
Convenience, infotainment and safety 
technologies meet in one suite.
 Exterior and upholstery colors
 Headliner colors and interior trims
 Recommended color combinations
 Equipment features and options
 

 
bmwusa.com
Overview
THE BMW M 
AT A GLANCE.
 BMW M School
 Build Your Own
 Technical data
 BMW Services
 
Exclusive offers for BMW customers.
 

 
bmwusa.com/byo
Editorial
A -HP
DOUBLE AGENT
.
Equipment of model shown: BMW M Sedan
Engine: 
M TwinPower Turbo V- engine 
Nominal output: 
 hp
Wheels: 
 
M Double Spoke (Style M) " forged light alloy wheels
Exterior color: 
Monte Carlo Blue Metallic
Upholstery: 
 
M Multi-contour front seats in Silverstone II Extended Merino Leather,
including Alcantara Anthracite headliner
Interior trim:  
Aluminum Trace 
For information on vehicle speciﬁ cations, please see pages -.
A lightning-quick track all-star – or a boardroom baron with a serious 
competitive streak? Heir to BMW’s high-performance heritage, the 
M raises as many questions as it answers. It’s time to take a business 
meeting – and the BMW M definitely means business.
From its -hp M-tuned TwinPower Turbo V- engine, to the 
bespoke luxury of its spacious interior, to the meticulously designed 
and integrated M “specifics” – such as signature M gills and exclusive 
paint choices – the M straddles the line between high-performance 
superstar and sublime luxury vehicle.
Put any question of identity crisis out of your mind: like all M vehicles, 
the M performs exactly as intended without compromises, whether 
delivering you to the office or from the stress and confines of daily 
driving. Seem impossible? It’s no coincidence. After all, magic also 
starts with the letter “M.”

bmwusa.com/M
Want the inside scoop on BMW? 
You can ﬁ nd us on Facebook® at 
facebook.com/bmwusa. 
     
Interior
06 07
PERFORMANCE THAT'S PERFECTLY MATCHED TO ANY OCCASION.
Talk about making great ﬁ rst impressions. At a 
glance, the elegant contours, aggressive styling 
and distinctive details of this powerhouse hint 
at the glory and elegance of its race-inspired 
heritage. But take the wheel and set foot on the 
accelerator pedal, and you’ll quickly know for 
sure the true personality of this M masterpiece. 
And with ample, luxurious space for ﬁ ve, all who 
step inside ﬁ nd the M the most persuasive and 
exhilarating conference room ever created.
European image shown.
FOR THE M,
EVERY SUIT IS 
A STRONG ONE.
Exterior
08 09
SHOW THEM WHAT YOU STAND FOR.
SOMETIMES ALL IT TAKES IS ONE LOOK TO FALL IN LOVE.
Onlookers may not be able to take in every detail of the BMW M as it goes by in a blur of Monte Carlo Blue Metallic paint. It may be necessary to 
slow down in order to show off the forged -inch M Double Spoke alloy wheels, the three large air intakes at the front apron, the elegantly ﬂ ared 
wheel arches and the large high-performance compound brakes. However, the BMW M is that rare vehicle that looks just as stunning at high 
speed at it does standing still. The visual feast continues with a smorgasbord of M-exclusive cues, with aerodynamic M exterior mirrors, signature 
M gills, M rear spoiler and quad tailpipes all contributing to the dynamic, aggressive look of the BMW M.
Get the latest information on BMW standard and optional features, packages and technical speciﬁ cations. 
Visit bmwusa.com, select the BMW model of your choice, and click on “Features & Specs.”
Exterior
11
10
INSPIRING POWER,
INCREDIBLY EXECUTED.
Engineered to leave the competition in the dust, 
the BMW M delivers all the goods associated 
with M vehicles – and then some. Its masterful 
M TwinPower Turbo V- yields an unexpected 
dividend:  percent more power on tap than its 
predecessor, yet a level of efﬁ ciency that’s nearly 
 percent greater. 
This is achieved through cutting-edge engine 
technologies like Valvetronic, BMW’s throttleless 
intake technology. This potent combination of 
lean muscle and intelligent fuel consumption 
leads to a singular driving experience. One that 
we’ve proudly branded with the letter M.
ALL IN THE NAME
OF PERFORMANCE.
SET YOUR OWN PACE.
YOU’RE IN CONTROL. AND IN FOR AN AMAZING DRIVE.
The myriad technologies and features inside the cabin of the M let 
you take your high-performance lifestyle with you. Get comfortable in 
the customized M Multi-contour seats, upholstered in plush Extended 
Merino Leather. Take hold of the specialized M Leather steering 
wheel, and you’re ready to launch. 
At a glance, the M-customized Head-up Display shows you exactly 
what you need to know: mph, rpm, fuel levels. Select your M Drive 
settings via two easy-access programmable buttons. Steering 
wheel-mounted paddle shifters, available with the M Double Clutch 
Transmission, send you from gear to gear with sporting ease. And 
a wealth of ConnectedDrive features keep you connected to your 
calendar, contacts and more.
Get the latest information on BMW standard and optional features, packages and technical speciﬁ cations. 
Visit bmwusa.com, select the BMW model of your choice, and click on “Features & Specs.”
Performance
14 15
PASSION AND POWER COME ALIVE.
Lithe, graceful and domineering on every 
roadway, the BMW M moves unlike any other 
vehicle. That’s no small feat. For every exciting 
mile, the M relies on some of BMW’s most 
forward-thinking, track-tested engineering. In 
addition to the groundbreaking M-tuned V- 
engine, the M’s custom M Car suspension, 
extensive lightweight construction and 
advanced high-torque -speed M Double 
Clutch Transmission work together to produce 
truly staggering numbers:  hp,  lb-ft of 
torque, a -rpm redline, and an exhilarating 
- time of just . seconds. 
It’s not just the innovative hardware that 
propels the M forward. Advanced engine 
mapping and suspension technology also 
contribute to its competitive spirit. There’s 
Active M Differential – an electronically 
controlled multi-plate limited slip differential 
that maximizes traction along with sporty 
responsiveness and handling. Two M Drive 
buttons located on the steering wheel let 
you select from among three driving modes 
(COMFORT, SPORT and SPORT+), automatically 
recalibrating performance parameters, such 
as throttle response and suspension stiffness, 
to provide the ideal “ﬁ t” for the driver.  
Taken together, these impressive driving 
technologies go hand-in-hand with the M’s 
innovative componentry to deliver incredible 
performance, every time.
Get the latest information on BMW standard and optional features, packages and technical speciﬁ cations. 
Visit bmwusa.com, select the BMW model of your choice, and click on “Features & Specs.”
  
BMW AG preliminary test results. See page  for detailed technical data.
BMW urges you to obey all posted speed laws and always wear safety belts. 
EVERY MILE, AN ADVENTURE.
EVERY ROAD, A REVELATION.
A PERSONAL EXPERIENCE, DESIGNED AROUND YOUR TASTES.
Prestige wears many outﬁ ts – yet few are as 
ﬁ tting as the BMW M. Designed to comfort, 
support and inspire, the interior delivers a sym-
phony of stylish elements. From the Anthracite 
Alcantara headliner to the M-exclusive door-sill 
ﬁ nishers, every inch speaks to its racing heritage. 
Rich trims and accents, such as Aluminum Trace 
and Dark Wood, please the eye. And for the 
ultimate in personalized luxury, there is a whole 
world of specialized paints, trims, headliners, 
upholstery colors and more available. However 
you choose to build your M Sedan, it’s a drive 
you’ll want to experience over and over again.
Get the latest information on BMW standard and optional features, packages and technical speciﬁ cations. 
Visit bmwusa.com, select the BMW model of your choice, and click on “Features & Specs.”
WHEN IT COMES TO CHOICES, 
THE SKY’S THE LIMIT
.

POWER MEETS EFFICIENCY.
Engine
20 21
The numbers speak for themselves:  horsepower. A -rpm 
redline. . seconds from -. The high-revving M TwinPower Turbo 
V- in the BMW M makes a singularly forceful statement when it 
comes to performance and acceleration. 
Fully leveraging innovative BMW technology – Double-VANOS contin-
uously variable camshaft timing, High Precision Direct Injection, and 
Valvetronic individual intake valve control that eliminates the need for a 
less-efﬁ cient throttle plate – the M generates an enormous  lb-ft 
of torque. This is available across a wide engine speed range, with 
emphatic forward thrust on tap from just over idle right through to high 
revs. A double turbocharger, combined with two large intercoolers to 
cool the engine and intake air, fully exploit the superb pulling power 
of this high-performance powerplant. 
The M’s V- also sets benchmarks when it comes to the performance-
to-fuel consumption ratio. BMW Efﬁ cientDynamics features include the 
energy-saving Auto Start-Stop function that turns off the engine while 
stopped and then restarts it automatically when you take your foot off the 
brake. Brake Energy Regeneration recovers energy output from the car’s 
braking and then recycles it to help power the vehicle. The result is nearly 
one-third less fuel consumption than its predecessor – exceptionally 
good highway fuel mileage for an ultra-high-power car. 
And then there’s the specially tuned M exhaust: an irresistible siren song 
for driving enthusiasts everywhere.
  
BMW AG preliminary test results with -speed M DCT. See page  for detailed technical data. 
BMW urges you to obey all posted speed laws and always wear safety belts.
  
Preliminary – EU test cycle results.
High torque is available across an extremely broad range of engine speeds – 
from  rpm (a little more than idle) all the way to  rpm. You experience 
power that responds fast and long across a wide range of acceleration starting 
points, for greater driving enjoyment.
M TwinScroll turbocharging for faster throttle response.
Turbochargers recycle exhaust pressure to drive a turbine that feeds high-
pressure air to the engine. It’s a clever and effective technology with one 
drawback: it takes time under acceleration to build exhaust pressure to 
spin the turbo. BMW M TwinScroll Turbo technology slashes this “turbo 
lag” by timing the exhaust pulses. Exhaust ﬂ ows into the turbos from each 
of two cylinder paths with a -degree ﬁ ring interval. This minimizes 
interference between exhaust pulses, optimizing energy transfer. What 
you feel is incredibly crisp throttle response. 

Engine speed (rpm)
Torque (lb-ft)
Output (hp)
Torque (lb-ft)
Output (hp)
The extraordinary power of the BMW M requires the application of 
intelligent transmission and drivetrain systems for maximum efﬁ ciency – 
and driving fun. The racing-derived -speed M Double Clutch 
Transmission (M DCT) with Drivelogic can be personalized by the driver 
to match a wide range of preferences, from comfort to extreme sport. 
This dynamic transmission can operate in either fully automatic or 
automated manual mode. In the manual mode, you shift like a Grand 
Prix driver by ﬂ icking paddles just behind the steering wheel with your 
ﬁ ngertips. Without taking your hands off the wheel – and with your foot 
ﬁ rmly on the accelerator – you can quickly select one of seven gears, 
and the transmission does the rest. Whether changing gears up or 
down, the experience is exciting and rewarding.
Here’s how it works. M Double Clutch Transmission is based on not 
one, but two partial transmissions housed inside the same gear case. 
One transmission contains gears , ,  and ; the other, gears ,  and . 
Now here’s the genius of it: say you’re accelerating hard in gear  in one 
transmission. Before the shift to gear  is made, this next gear is already 
engaged and ready to go. To make the shift, M DCT doesn’t push gears. 
Rather, it selects one of two clutches to instantly engage the next gear 
in the other transmission. Changing clutches, instead of physically 
PERFECTION A
T THE LIMIT
.
moving gears, is blindingly fast – and it can be executed with your 
right foot ﬂ at to the ﬂ oor. To further improve acceleration, appropriately 
conﬁ gured Drivelogic programs boost torque to a higher degree. 
Combined with the close ratio gaps between the seven gears, these 
programs help you feel each gear shift with an ever-increasing surge 
forward.
The M Double Clutch Transmission also automates a time-tested race- 
driving principle to improve vehicle dynamics when slowing for a corner: 
precisely matching engine rpm to the next-lowest gear during the shift. 
M DCT automates this function, precisely matching engine rpm to 
braking force to prevent sudden lurching when shifting down. Another 
aspect of Drivelogic gives you a choice of six drive programs – three in 
manual mode and three in automatic. Each offers a broad spectrum, 
from full-on sporting to smooth and effortless. 
The transmission also offers another technology taken directly from 
racecars: Launch Control. This provides the BMW M with the just the 
right amount of power to the rear wheels for the best acceleration from 
a standing start to top speed. What you get is the power to apply power 
like never before.
Active M Differential optimizes traction for greater control. 
This differential, the ﬁ nal gear unit connecting the transmission to the 
drive wheels, is electronically controlled and communicates with the 
Dynamic Stability Control (DSC) system to ensure intelligent application 
of engine torque in every driving situation, including high-speed 
cornering and variable road surfaces.
ENGINEERED TO GO AROUND THE TRACK.
OR JUST AROUND THE CORNER.
Chassis and brakes
24 25
The BMW M Sedan doesn’t conform to traditional rules. Instead, 
it is born of the free-spirited and innovative engineering philosophy 
of BMW M. This ensures a driving experience that can be conﬁ gured 
for the track or even an easy drive to the supermarket. 
The precision-built M high-performance chassis you see on the facing 
page has been redeveloped from scratch and tuned to perfection on 
the famous and demanding Northern Loop of Germany’s Nürburgring, 
the Nordschleife. You begin to experience the effect of M when you 
settle into the cockpit and see the M Drive buttons on the steering 
wheel. These buttons connect you to pre-programmed conﬁ gurations 
for either a sporty or a comfortable drive. One of these is M Dynamic 
Mode, which helps you push the performance envelope of the M 
by raising the threshold of when Dynamic Stability Control intervenes. 
This works in concert with the Active M Differential that improves 
traction on even the most demanding corners. As a result, you can 
explore the limits with more conﬁ dence.
Also adding to your enjoyment is Dynamic Damping Control. This 
feature allows you to adjust the shock absorbers to your preference 
in one of three modes: COMFORT, SPORT and SPORT+. It’s one more 
way the racing souls of BMW M engineers put a smile on your face 
with every drive.
Get the latest information on BMW standard and optional features, packages and technical speciﬁ cations. 
Visit bmwusa.com, select the BMW model of your choice, and click on “Features & Specs.”
A LEGEND HITS 40.
BMW M.
Motorsport vision: Bob Lutz, Sales Director of BMW AG, 
and his eight staffers establish BMW Motorsport GmbH.
The ﬁ rst M. With the BMW M1, BMW takes motorsport 
to the street – and the track: with the support of racing legends 
Bernie Ecclestone and Max Mosley, the car celebrates its premiere 
in the Procar Series. The BMW M1, of which only 460 are built, 
is every collector’s dream today.
As BMW’s ﬁ rst high-powered sports sedan, the BMW M5 
combines exceptional performance with superb comfort. Electric 
windows, central locking and a powerful six-cylinder engine: the 
BMW M5 features the most innovative technologies of its day. 
And, for a long time, it is made by hand. 
1972
1978
1984
M: The most 
powerful letter in 
the world. Since 1972.
Innovation, aesthetics and a 
passionate commitment to motor racing 
are the foundations on which BMW M has been 
crafting thrilling vehicles for more than 40 years. From 
the pioneering concept exploring the limits of contemporary 
engineering, to the successful participant in numerous international 
motorsport events, to the elegant, athletic production model with added 
driving enjoyment – trust BMW M to deliver memorable performance. The 
letter M will continue to represent a unique combination of advanced technology and 
impressive power, for a BMW driving experience that can otherwise only be found on the 
world’s racetracks.
BMW Motorsport GmbH changes its name 
to BMW M GmbH – and ever since, that letter has 
stood for maximum performance, innovation 
and driving enjoyment. It is also the home of 
BMW Individual, which offers customers exclusive 
automobile compositions tailored to their wishes.
1993
Exploring new terrain: The BMW X5 M and 
the BMW X6 M take M Power off-road. They are the 
ﬁ rst M models to feature the intelligent BMW xDrive 
all-wheel-drive system, with an M-speciﬁ c set-up 
that maximizes dynamic performance.
2009
An eye on the future: the BMW M6 sets 
standards for advanced technology. Innovations 
like the high-revving M TwinPower Turbo V-8 engine 
or ultra-lightweight materials such as CFRP 
demonstrate what the future will look like – both in 
motor racing and on the road.
2012
The BMW M3 takes the motorsport world by 
storm: T
ouring Car World and European Champion 
in 1987, German Touring Car Champion in 1989. 
Demand for the high-performance sports model 
is so high that 5,000 are built in one year.
1986
Every day, our world is becoming increasingly networked. Many BMW drivers, however, are better 
connected with than most, obtaining information on the road, communicating by phone or email and 
always updated on the latest events. BMW ConnectedDrive encompasses all these services, including 
trafﬁ c features which enable the networking of BMW cars and their occupants with the outside world.
Enhanced mobile networking. The BMW Vision ConnectedDrive is a visionary Roadster with a 
design that amazes at ﬁ rst sight. Its dynamic, ﬂ owing lines draw the eye from the distinctive front end, 
over the long hood and then to an extraordinary synthesis of exterior and interior. Three levels in the 
interior each symbolize an area of BMW ConnectedDrive – Convenience, Infotainment and Safety. 
Accompanying the functions and controls, information is highlighted by different colored ﬁ ber-optic 
lights, as well as by rhythm, motion and texture. More on this concept vehicle and further research 
projects can be found in the BMW Future Lab.

bmw.com/futurelab
 
BMW ConnectedDrive
 
In touch with your world.
BMW ConnectedDrive
28 29
BMW CONNECTED DRIVE: CONVENIENCE, INFOTAINMENT 
AND SAFETY TECHNOLOGIES MEET IN ONE SUITE.
With BMW ConnectedDrive you stay in touch, no matter where you go. Its advanced communications and entertainment features create a network 
between driver, vehicle and environment, at any time and wherever you are. The following pages present special highlights in the areas of convenience, 
infotainment and safety. For a comprehensive overview, see bmwusa.com/connecteddrive.
Convenience. These BMW ConnectedDrive innovations offer service-oriented functions, so you can always relax in your BMW.
Speed Limit Info shows the currently applicable speed limit in the 
instrument cluster as well as in the Head-up Display (if so equipped). 
A special camera captures the speed limit posted on signs; a control 
unit then processes this information together with data from the on-board 
Navigation system. Other components, such as the vehicle’s rain sensor, 
are also used, so the system can even factor in variable speed limits for 
the driver in, for example, wet conditions.
Top-, Side- and Rear-view Cameras around the vehicle show the 
surroundings on the Control Display, for enhanced visibility. The Top-view 
Camera provides a bird’s-eye view of the road alongside the doors. 
These images, taken by cameras positioned in the exterior mirrors, help 
guide you when maneuvering in tight spaces. Side-view Cameras in 
the front bumpers show traffic approaching the front of the vehicle from 
the sides, such as when exiting a garage. The Rear-view Camera, 
located behind the BMW badge on the trunk lid, shows the area behind 
the vehicle. Working with Park Distance Control, interactive guidelines 
indicate if the vehicle can fit in a parking space, and display parking 
trajectories and turn angles. 
Lane Departure Warning feature. 
This feature senses when your vehicle is crossing over road lane 
markings or is changing lanes without signaling, and warns you by 
sending a mild vibration through the steering wheel. The system 
can be turned on and off via a button near the steering wheel. If you 
activate your directional signal – meaning that you intend to change lanes – 
no warning is given. 
Full-color BMW Head-up Display.
The BMW Head-up Display uses a multi-color TFT display to project 
important travel information, such as current speed and Check Control 
data, on the windshield directly in your line of vision in full color. Directional 
arrows from the Navigation system can also be displayed.  
Get the latest information on BMW standard and optional features, packages and technical speciﬁ ca-
tions. Visit bmwusa.com, select the BMW model of your choice, and click on “Features & Specs.”
BMW ConnectedDrive
30 31
STAY TOTALLY IN TOUCH 
WHEREVER YOU GO – WITH 
BMW CONNECTED DRIVE.
Whether you’re far from home or just in the next town, BMW Assist™ 
offers convenience and peace of mind. There are new ConnectedDrive 
features that extend BMW’s leadership in wireless communications. 
 
Marvel at an extensive array of new Mobile Ofﬁ ce functions. Get a visual 
image of your callers. With BMW Assist, you enjoy all this – and more.
Part of BMW Apps, Pandora Radio is an innovative streaming audio 
service that delivers personalized music selections right to your BMW. 
Create new stations and tailor your listening experience by rating songs 
with either a thumbs-up or thumbs-down. Even while listening, you 
can stay in touch: your BMW can still receive calls through Bluetooth® 
without missing a beat.
Enjoy the instant gratiﬁ cation of music on-demand in your BMW, thanks 
to MOG® – another part of BMW Apps. Browse, search and play any of 
 million songs in the MOG music library. Subscribing to MOG’s Primo 
service allows you to take advantage of the seamless integration of MOG’s 
mobile app.
 Requires BMW Apps option and an iPhone. 
Get the latest information on BMW standard and optional features, packages and technical speciﬁ ca-
tions. Visit bmwusa.com, select the BMW model of your choice, and click on “Features & Specs.”
BMW Apps lets you access Social Networks, music PlugIn and Video 
Playback through your iPhone,
® and see them on the Display screen. 
Tune in to Web radio and search for stations from around the globe 
by name, location or genre. You can also store your favorite stations, 
ﬁ nd similar stations, display station information, and change the quality 
of the audio.
 Your favorite entries are stored on your iPhone, so you can 
take them with you from one vehicle to another.
Please note:  
  
A broadband data link is required. The costs for this (e.g., data roaming) are regulated 
by the customer agreement with the mobile phone service provider. 
 
 Not all features available while vehicle is in motion; see dealer for details. 
 
  
Web radio audio quality depends on the bit rate of the station, and data reception 
 
depends on your cell service. Data transfer comes over the iPhone.
BMW Connected App, a suite of integrated web-connected features, 
can read aloud your Facebook® and Twitter™ feeds, and lets you send 
prewritten tweets with a single click. Wiki Local, a geographically based 
feature, ﬁ nds and reads aloud Wikipedia® articles relevant to the place you 
select – while Wiki Tourguide takes you through a list of articles about 
nearby points of interest, prioritized by distance from your vehicle’s current 
location. The Last Mile Navigation and Vehicle Finder, also included 
in the BMW Connected App suite, provides walking directions to your 
destination after you’ve parked – and directions back to your car later.
Please note: Local information may not be available in all areas.
When you select PlugIn from the BMW Apps menu, the iPhone exports 
a typical iPod® look and control to your BMW through the video connec-
tion.
 You can then search for your favorite music by playlist, artist, album, 
song, genre or composer, just as you would on your iPhone.
Please note: The BMW Connected App must be installed on your iPhone for the PlugIn to connect.
BMW ConnectedDrive
Colors and materials
Equipment features and options
BMW Online allows online access to up-to-date fuel prices and gas 
 
station locations; the latest weather forecasts, advisories and warnings; 
Dow Jones, S&P  and NASDAQ indices; and the powerful reach of 
the Google Maps database – all delivered on the Control Display inside 
your vehicle. Access news headlines and have them read aloud via T
ext-
to-speech technology. “Send to Mail” pinpoints your current location and 
planned destination, and allows you to send the information to any smart-
phone or email account. Then it’s just a quick hyperlink to Google Maps 
for your friends and family to see where you are and where you’re going.
Use the time you spend in your vehicle even more effectively with BMW’s 
Mobile Ofﬁ ce feature.
 For example, text messages and emails can be 
transferred from your Bluetooth paired phone directly to the vehicle’s 
iDrive Display and can be read back to you using T
ext-to-speech func-
tion 
ality and the vehicle’s audio system. Thanks to Bluetooth audio 
streaming, you can enjoy wireless playback of your music ﬁ les; your 
personal audio library can even be accessed via the iDrive Controller.
  
Not all mobile phones are compatible with Mobile Ofﬁ ce, and some compatible phones support 
a limited number of Mobile Ofﬁ ce functions. For the complete list of compatible mobile phones 
and the details regarding which Mobile Ofﬁ ce functions are supported by each phone, please visit 
bmwusa.com/bluetooth.
MyInfo allows you to send business locations and street addresses 
to your BMW from Google Maps.
™ Destinations and phone numbers 
can be accessed and exported to your Navi 
gation system for immediate 
route guidance.
Enhanced functions for the iPod and USB adapter add to the ease 
and pleasure of using your iPod or iPhone.
 Want to know which CD that 
song comes from? The album cover is shown on your Display screen. 
Don’t purchase additional cables – your iPod or iPhone’s original USB 
cable connects to your BMW’s USB port. Another rare feature: with 
BMW Assist and Bluetooth audio streaming, you can wirelessly play 
 
music through the BMW audio system from any Bluetooth compatible 
music player or mobile phone, from anywhere in your vehicle. In fact, 
the audio library appears on the Display screen, where you can use the 
iDrive Controller knob to make your selection.
BMW Assist gives you peace of mind knowing that a friendly response 
specialist is there to help you /, at the touch of a button. The Safety 
Plan includes Automatic Collision Notiﬁ cation, Emergency Request 
(SOS), T
eleService, Enhanced Roadside Assistance, Door Unlock, Stolen 
Vehicle Recovery, Customer Relations and MyInfo. The Convenience 
Plan adds personalized Directions, Trafﬁ c and Weather reports, BMW 
Online and Concierge services for restaurant and hotel recommendations, 
with the destination address and phone number sent to your BMW. 
Make up to four operator-assisted calls per year with Critical Calling 
if your mobile phone is not available or its battery is discharged.
BMW M School/Build Your Own
Technical data
BMW Services
Exterior colors | Upholstery colors and materials
32 33
BMW ConnectedDrive
Colors and materials
Equipment features and options
The following pages show available colors and materials for the BMW M5. Use these samples to compare paint, upholstery, trim colors and combinations. 
Please note that these samples are printed representations; they are not exact reproductions. To see the actual colors, visit your authorized BMW center. 
They will be happy to show you original samples and assist you with special requests. 
A Silverstone Metallic
B Monte Carlo Blue Metallic
A Imperial Blue Metallic
A Mojave Metallic
B Singapore Gray Metallic
S Azurite Black Metallic
 Black Sapphire Metallic
 Alpine White (Non-metallic)
X Citrin Black Metallic
A Space Gray Metallic
X Amazonite Silver Metallic
X Champagne Quartz Metallic
X Moonstone Metallic
Exterior colors.
BMW Individual
B Sakhir Orange Metallic
BMW M School/Build Your Own
Technical data
BMW Services
Leather upholstery: Leather on all seating surfaces; other components may be 
Leather or Leatherette. BMW Extended Merino Leather upholstery includes 
front and rear seats including headrests, inserts in door trims, center console 
including armrests, and the lower part of the instrument panel.
For details on the availability of standard and optional exterior paints and upholstery 
materials and colors, please visit bmwusa.com/byo.
LKSW Black Extended Merino Leather 
LKDA Sakhir Orange Extended Merino Leather
ZAP Silk Gray Extended Merino Leather
XSW Black Full Merino Leather
ZAC Platinum Extended Merino Leather
XA Silverstone II Full Merino Leather
ZAP Champagne Extended Merino Leather
XDA Sakhir Orange Full Merino Leather
ZAWT Cohiba Brown Extended Merino Leather
LKA Silverstone II Extended Merino Leather
ZAP Graphite Extended Merino Leather
Upholstery colors.
BMW Individual
Headline colors and interior trims | Recommended color combinations
34 35
BMW ConnectedDrive
Colors and materials
Equipment features and options
L Aluminum Trace
 
XE Dark Red Sycamore Wood
XE Honey Brown Satin Walnut Wood
XE Piano Finish Black
CE Fineline Anthracite Wood
BN Dark Ash Grain Wood
BMW Individual
BMW Individual
XD Platinum Alcantara
XD Champagne Alcantara
XD Silk Gray Alcantara
Interior trim.
Headliners.
 Anthracite Alcantara
BMW M School/Build Your Own
Technical data
BMW Services
Recommended color combinations. 
BMW upholstery colors
BMW Individual upholstery colors
Interior materials
Extended Merino Leather
Full Merino Leather
BMW Individual Extended Merino Leather
Upholstery colors
Black
Silverstone II
Sakhir Orange
Black
Silverstone II
Sakhir Orange
Graphite
Silk Gray
Platinum
Champagne
Cohiba Brown
Interior colors
Black
Black
Black
Black
Black
Black
Black
Black
Black
Black
Black
BMW exterior colors
Alpine White (Non-metallic)

Black Sapphire Metallic

Mojave Metallic

Silverstone Metallic

Space Gray Metallic

Imperial Blue Metallic

Monte Carlo Blue Metallic

Sakhir Orange Metallic

Singapore Gray Metallic

BMW Individual exterior colors
Citrin Black Metallic

Azurite Black Metallic

Moonstone Metallic

Amazonite Silver Metallic

Champagne Quartz Metallic

BMW interior trims
Aluminum Trace

Dark Ash Grain Wood

Fineline Anthracite Wood

BMW Individual interior trims
Dark Red Sycamore Wood

Honey Brown Satin Walnut Wood

Piano Finish Black

 Recommended color combination
Leather upholstery: Leather on all seating surfaces; other components 
may be Leather or Leatherette. 
BMW Extended Merino Leather upholstery includes front and rear seats 
including headrests, inserts in door trims, center console including 
armrests, and the lower part of the instrument panel.
For details on the availability of standard and optional exterior paints and 
upholstery materials and colors, please visit bmwusa.com/byo.
Equipment features and options
36 37
BMW ConnectedDrive
Colors and materials
Equipment features and options
Equipment features and options.
Gear shift lever for the -speed 
M Double Clutch Transmission with 
Drivelogic includes M logo and 
illumination.
-speed manual gearbox (not 
shown) is designed for optimum 
transmission of the M’s formidable 
engine power throughout the rev 
range. The heavy-duty clutch 
expertly dissipates heat for smooth 
shifts during heavy use.
Bang & Olufsen® High-End 
Surround Sound System 
with Dirac Dimensions™ signal 
processing creates an open and lively 
soundscape and excellent acoustics. 
This is achieved via  loudspeakers, 
including an automatically extending 
center speaker. This speaker includes 
a midrange function and Acoustic 
Lens technology for consistent sound 
quality at any seating position. Choose 
between two settings: Studio for 
extremely clear, studio-quality sound, 
or Expanded for a wider sound 
experience. The light feature of all 
loudspeaker frames completes a 
perfect audio-visual experience.
BMW M School/Build Your Own
Technical data
BMW Services
Extended instrument cluster 
features Black Panel Display with 
permanently illuminated white 
surrounds for speedometer and 
tachometer plus fuel level and oil 
temperature displays.
Door-sill ﬁ nishers with aluminum 
inserts and M lettering make a powerful 
statement the moment you get in.
Double Spoke (Style M)  x  
front,  x  rear light alloy wheels 
with / front, / rear run-ﬂ at 
performance tires.
Wheel and tire speciﬁ cations are subject to 
change. Get the latest information on BMW 
standard and optional features, packages and 
technical speciﬁ cations. Visit bmwusa.com, 
select the BMW model of your choice, and 
click on “Features & Specs.” 
1  
Run-flat tires do not come equipped with a 
spare tire and wheel. 
2  
Driving over rough or damaged road surfaces, 
as well as debris, curbs and other obstacles, 
can cause serious damage to wheels, tires 
and suspension parts. This is more likely to 
occur with low-profile tires, which provide less 
cushioning between the wheel and the road. 
Be careful to avoid road hazards and reduce 
your speed, especially if your vehicle is 
equip 
ped with low-profile tires. Performance 
tires are not recommended for driving in ice 
and snow conditions.

Technical data
BMW Services
Technical data
40 41
BMW ConnectedDrive
Colors and materials
Equipment features and options
M Sedan
Weight
Unladen weight
lbs
 ()
Weight distribution, front / rear
%
. / . (. / .)
Engine
T
ype / cylinders / valves per cylinder
M TwinPower Turbo V- / 
Displacement
cc

Bore / stroke
inch
. / .
Nominal output / rpm
hp
 /  -
Maximum torque / rpm
lb-ft
 / -
Compression ratio
:
.
Transmission
Gear ratios – -speed manual
I / II / III
:
. / . / .
IV / V / VI / R
:
. / . / . / .
Final drive ratio
:
.
Gear ratios – -speed M Double Clutch Transmission
I / II / III / IV
:
. / . / . / .
V / VI / VII / R
:
. / . / . / .
Final drive ratio
:
.
Performance
T
op speed
mph

Acceleration - mph
sec
. (.)
Fuel consumption
City / highway
mpg
TBD (TBD)
T
ank capacity, approximate
gal
.
Tires, wheels and brakes
Run-flat performance tire dimensions
front
 / 
rear
 / 
Wheel dimensions – material
front
 x . forged alloy
rear
 x . forged alloy
Brake diameter, front / rear – type
inch
. / . – ventilated disc
  
Top speed limited electronically. 
  
BMW AG preliminary test results. Actual acceleration results may vary, depending on specification of vehicle; road and environmental conditions; testing procedures and driving style. These 
results should be used for comparison only and  
verification should not be attempted on public roads. BMW urges you to obey all posted speed laws and always wear safety belts. 
  
EPA-estimated ﬁ gures are for comparison purposes only. Fuel economy ﬁ gures not available at time of printing. Please go to bmwusa.com for the most up-to-date fuel consumption information. 
Your actual  
mileage will vary, depending on speed, driving habits, trip length and  
driving conditions; actual mileage may be lower. 
  
Driving over rough or damaged road surfaces, as well as debris, curbs and other obstacles, can cause serious damage to wheels, tires and suspension parts. This is more likely to occur with low-
profile tires, which provide less cushioning between the wheel and the road. Be careful to avoid road hazards and reduce your speed, especially if your vehicle is equipped with low-profile tires. 
Performance tires are not recommended for driving in ice and snow conditions. Please note: M5 models are not equipped with a spare tire and wheel. They include M Mobility System, which 
offers lifetime BMW Roadside Assistance for tire assistance. Wheel and tire specifications are subject to change.
 
Figures in ( ) apply to vehicles with -speed M Double Clutch Transmission.
BMW M School/Build Your Own
Technical data
BMW Services

All dimensions are shown in inches. 
U.S. Importer: BMW of North America, LLC, Woodcliff Lake, NJ 07677. All illustrations and specifications  
contained in this brochure are based on the latest product 
informa 
tion available at the time of printing. BMW  
reserves the right to make changes at any time, without notice, in colors, materials, equipment, specifications and 
models. BMW may, subject to legal requirements, determine the Model Year designation of its vehicles. The Model Year designation on any particular model may be 
longer or shorter than 12 months. Some vehicles pictured may contain non-U.S. equipment. Some models may be shown with optional equipment. While BMW NA 
makes all reasonable efforts to provide accurate information in this brochure, there is no guarantee or war 
ranty of accuracy. Furthermore, we do not assume any liability 
for the accuracy or completeness of information presented. This brochure shall not be used or relied upon as a substitute for information that is available from your 
BMW center. Further information can be obtained from your authorized BMW center or bmwusa.com.
©2012 BMW of North America, LLC 
Not to be reproduced wholly or in part without written permission of BMW NA. The BMW name, logo,model names and SAV are  
registered trademarks. 
The Bluetooth word mark and logos are owned by the Bluetooth SIG, Inc. and any use of such marks by BMW is  
under license. iPhone and iPod are registered trademarks of Apple Inc. 
Other trademarks and trade names are the property of their respective owners.
BMW ConnectedDrive
Colors and materials
Equipment features and options
We believe that a premium ownership experience should feature performance 
and luxury, as well as safety and convenience. We believe you should be able to 
drive a BMW to its potential, while enjoying peace of mind and reduced cost of 
ownership. That’s the idea behind BMW Ultimate Service®: a suite of com-
pre 
hensive programs and services that are included in every new BMW vehicle. 
BMW Ultimate Service starts with the New Vehicle/SAV Limited Warranty, 
providing you with coverage for the first four years or , miles, whichever 
comes first. Additionally, you have -year, unlimited-mileage warranty protec-
tion against corrosion and rust perforation.
 The BMW Maintenance Program 
and BMW Assist,
™ as well as BMW Roadside Assistance come standard.
BMW Maintenance Program is 
one of the most com 
prehensive 
maintenance programs in its class. 
We cover all factory-recommended 
mainte 
nance during the New Vehicle/
SAV Limited Warranty coverage 
period. This includes scheduled oil 
services and inspections. Also covered 
is the replacement of items that are 
subject to normal wear and tear, such 
as brake pads, wiper blade inserts 
and engine drive belts. And, thanks 
to BMW’s advanced engineering, 
most owners enjoy a well-balanced 
maintenance schedule, with flexible 
routine service intervals that can save 
you time. When your vehicle requires 
attention, your author 
ized BMW 
 
center ensures that it receives only 
genuine BMW parts – your assurance 
of exacting quality standards.
For more details on BMW Ultimate 
Service and the BMW Maintenance 
Program, visit your authorized BMW 
center or log on to bmwusa.com/
ultimateservice. 
BMW Assist Safety Plan is a 
four-year program that lets you enjoy 
peace of mind knowing that a friendly 
response specialist is there to help 
you, /, at just the push of a button. 
The Safety Plan includes Automatic 
Collision Notification, Emergency 
Request, Enhanced Roadside Assis-
tance, Door Unlock, Stolen Vehicle 
Recovery and Customer Relations. 
Included in the BMW Assist Safety Plan, 
MyInfo allows you to send business 
locations and street addresses with 
their associated phone numbers from 
the Google Maps™ website directly 
to your BMW. The destination can 
be sent to your Navi 
gation system 
for turn-by-turn directions. With the 
BMW Navigation system and your 
mobile phone linked to your BMW 
via Bluetooth® technology, BMW’s 
Mobile Office feature transfers text 
messages and emails to your iDrive 
Display screen and reads them aloud 
to you. A Calendar and To-do List 
can also appear on your Display 
screen while en route. Running late? 
Click on the phone number in the 
Calendar to call your appointment. 
For a list of tested mobile phones, 
visit bmwusa.com/bluetooth. 
For the ultimate in coverage, add the 
optional BMW Assist Convenience 
Plan. You’ll enjoy unlimited access 
to personalized Directions, Traffic 
and Weather reports, as well as our 
Concierge feature, which can send 
a destination address and phone 
number, such as a restaurant or hotel, 
right to your BMW. You can make up 
to four operator-assisted calls per year 
with Critical Calling if your cell phone 
is not available, or if its battery is dis-
charged. BMW Online allows access 
to up-to-date fuel prices and the 
latest weather forecasts, as well as 
Bloomberg’s stock indices and the 
powerful reach of the Google Maps 
database – delivered to the iDrive 
 
Display right inside your vehicle.
BMW’s unique TeleService, included 
in the BMW Assist Safety Plan, con-
tinually monitors speciﬁ c parts that are 
subject to wear and tear – including 
the engine oil, micro-ﬁ lter, spark plugs, 
brake linings and various ﬂ uids – as 
well as services that require attention 
at regular intervals, such as vehicle 
service inspections. This data is auto-
matically transmitted to your authorized 
BMW center, which will then call you 
to schedule a service appointment. 
You don’t have to keep track of when 
your vehicle requires routine mainte-
nance. An added ben 
eﬁ t: any needed 
maintenance service parts will already 
be on hand, so your BMW is serviced 
and returned to you as quickly as 
 
possible. And because they use only 
Original BMW Parts, you can rely on 
expert ﬁ t and long-lasting BMW quality. 
For more details on TeleService, visit 
bmwassist.com.
BMW Roadside Assistance is 
provided free of charge for the first 
four years – with no mileage limit. Call 
---BMW () for friendly 
on-the-road help, /, anywhere in 
the United States, Canada and Puerto 
Rico. This includes  
everything from 
flat-tire changes, emergency gasoline 
and lock-out  
service, to towing, alter-
native trans 
portation and even trip-
interruption benefits. This service also 
provides valuable trip-routing advice.
THE MOST EXCITING PLACE IN AMERICA 
TO DRIVE A BMW M VEHICLE.
The BMW Performance Center in Spartanburg, SC.
Just beyond the foothills of the Carolinas’ Blue Ridge Mountains lies 
the $ million BMW Performance Center. This sprawling, modern 
complex houses the world-famous BMW Performance Driving School, 
as well as the Zentrum Museum, BMW Boutique, BMW Delivery 
Center, and a Corporate Conference Center. Nearby is BMW’s only 
manufactur 
ing facility in the U.S., where models, such as the SAV,® are 
built for export worldwide. It’s a unique place where BMW enthusiasts 
can spend days – or, in the surrounding area, an entire vacation.
GOING BEYOND ENGINEERING: 
THE HIGH-PERFORMANCE 
BMW OWNERSHIP EXPERIENCE.
